# PapaDuckie
Midterm project, classroom remote controller
## Motivation
My journey through coding started with a love of computers, a fascination with typing, and the sound of the keys, a love for technology and the world around me. I've also always loved rubber duckies, I've collected them throughout the years, and their connection to coding, and programming drew me in the software engineering even more, so I bring to you Papa duckie, the duckie to rule all the the rubber duckies, and have the power to control the classroom and even brighten up peoples day with his music and song!
Papa duckie is a remote controller duckie that is meant to be a programmer's best friend, the ruler of all duckies, able to play music to cheer you up and help you through the hardest coding challenges, with the ability to turn on and off any gadgets that help make your work environment more friendly.
The biggest challenges for me were designing the duckie himself in SolidWorks, and wiring the duckie, not only because of his shape but using multiple breadboxes is different from using just one. My third challenge was utilizing items we haven't covered in class. I feel like this project was super valuable, it taught me a lot about persevering through challenges, especially with a deadline in mind, but also, problem solving and pushing myself to find the answer, the skills I have gained making Papa duckie are both symbolic to me and life changing I am super proud of what I was able to accomplish and look forward to making more!
## Features
Neopixel ring that lights up in a rainbow patern on the back of Papa Duckies head. with the push of the encoder button Papa duckie turns on a light show with the hue lights and plays the duckie song, Papa duckie also features a display which diplays his name, Papa duckie, and the current temperature in degrees C. He also controls all of the WEMO devices in the classroom, he turns them on and off with the click of the blue button. 
## stretch or future goals
I want to eventually code in a volume setting using the encoder which will adjust the music volume based on the position of the dial on the encoder, I just didn't have a lot of time to test this out. I would also want to make the duckie respond to you when you ask him programming/wiring questions so he can be the programmers ultimate buddy!
## Design
Papa duckie was designed in solidWorks and 3D printed on a bambu studio 3d printer. He sits on a "bathtub" box which is made from 1/18th inch plywood, which was laser cut and laser etched. He is meant to me the programmers best helper and friend, able to operate objects in the room and cheer you up!
